---
draft: true
---

20 Objects Shorts


patcher / abstraction


Before embarking upon this Module, it's important to have a general understanding of Max conventions (right to left order, hot and cold inlets)




fontlist, umenu

Transform attributes into arguments.



1. jit.world
	Dims
	Messages to jit.gl.render (removeplane)
	transform reset
	orthographic mode
		Friend: jit.bang, attrui, jit.time, jit.framecount
2. jit.gl.layer
	jit.gl.videoplane
	Sprites, transparency
3. jit.matrix, jit.movie
4. key  / mouse / hi / gamepad
	User input
		route, select, routepass, trigger (the combination of select and trigger help you map any input to any output)
5.	State saving.
		What is the position of the player? How many lives? What's the score?
		pattr? value? pvar?
		dict
6. jit.gl.text (2D/3D)
	1. fontlist
	2. umenu
	3. coll
	4. sprintf / combine
	5. strings/arrays?
7. 2. jit.gl.camera
	1. the camera
	2. tripod
	3. locklook / lookat
	4. 
8. jit.phys objects
	Rigid bodies - look at ways to specify a body with Matrices
	Collision detection
	Impulses
		jit.phys.world @remove_plane 3
9. jit.gl.mesh...  (or should this be left for 3D?)
10. Generative Worlds. Infinite runner
	1. jit.gl.path
	2. jit.gl.mesh here?
	jit.noise
	jit.bfg

11. jit.ui
12. random / urn

13. Animation and Moving elements
	1. line,
	jit.gl.path
	jit.anim.path
	jit.anim.drive
	jit.path?
	ease package?
jit.mo


patcher / abstraction.
random
	urn

12. Sound Playback Fundamentals
	Sample playback
	Sound synthesis
	Music bed...
	sfplay~, buffer~ (play~ for lots of quick to load sounds), poly~
	

13. Sound Synthesis
	1. noise~, pink, svf~

14. Groups and Scenes: jit.gl.node
	Scenes


15. 2.5D
	Let's take a break to talk about illusions of depth in 2D.
	Use multiple layers that give the illusion of distance by being animated more slowly. To do this we'll use jit.mo.perlin loops of different octaves and sizes.
	Aside: Why do near things look near? Why do far things look far? Far off things are lowpassed... stretched it. Near things are faster moving but less scaled vertically?

Jagged. Mountains? As a drunk walk?


16. Exercise: 

Let's create a game where a ball rolls down an infinite hill, and Physical Modelling sounds are generated



17. Spawning and working with multiples
	poly~
	JS methods
	jit.gl.multiple (+ jit.matrix)
	Particle systems: shiva/vishnu

18. Post processing / Sweetening (world shake)
	Jit.anim.






---


20. Moving to 3 dimensions....

As a last chapter, we are going to lay the groundwork for moving our understanding to 3D.

Camera... Give a white ball an impulse, and send it into a rack of balls. Oblique Camera.

jit.gl.camera
jit.gl.gridshape
jit.gl.material
jit.gl.light

What about game assets?
jit.gl.model



jit.gl.model, animating models from Mixamo.